Hello and welcome back to the course on Tableau and into this trial we will learn how to make our dashboard
interactive.
So what do you mean by that.
Well what we want to do is we want to allow the user of this dashboard to drill into certain parts of
the dashboard by just simply clicking on it.
So for instance if the user wants to drill into certain state like Il de France for instance he can
just simply click on this bubble and then the customers scatter plot will automatically adjust to reflect
only the customers that live in that state and the same thing goes for any other state because that
will add a lot of value to this dashboard and to the users who are going to be using it because they'll
be able to analyze difference geographical regions individually and separately.
So let's see how we can do that in order to do that we need to add an action and then tableau there
are two main types of actions are called filtering and highlighting.
So let's go to the dashboard dropdown here and we'll click action here you can see that if you want
to add action you can choose between filter highlight.
There's also third action called Your URL which will take your church and link but we won't be looking
at that for now.
Instead of adding an action here right now what we will do is we will add an automatic action which
is much easier and that will help us slowly get into this topic of actions.
So what are we going to do at the top of map of Europe will look click this dropdown and we will select
the menu which is called user's filter.
So as soon as you click that it's all done.
So now as soon as I click on il de France you will see that the scatter plot has been adjusted.
If I click on England it's also been adjusted.
I click on Netherlands right away you can see it's just that.
So as you can see I am able to now very easily select different states and see what's going on in each
one of these states so that is a very handy way to analyze data.
So what exactly happened.
Let's have a look in more detail.
Now if we go to dashboard and we go to actions you will see that there is an action here already and
it's generated action meaning it was added automatically.
Now let's click on this generated action and we'll click edit.
So here you can see that there is a few fields.
First of all what is the source of the action.
Dashboard one is our dashboard that we're looking at.
And in dashboard one it is map of Europe.
That is the source of the action.
The action is run.
Only when you select a certain element.
And once you've selected an element the action is applied to the target sheets the target sheets are
the customers scatter plot and the map of Europe once again.
So in this case what is going to do is it's going to filter the customers scatter plot.
It won't actually take out the rest of the values from the map of Europe because tableau smart it knows
that if you take out the rest of the values from the map of Europe then you won't be able to click on
something else.
So let's have a look at that again.
I click OK.
And now once I'm selecting as you can see this is the source of the action.
And these two are the targets of the action.
So in this case the customers scatter plot being the new worksheet is being filtered.
So whether I click through the states these customers are own only the customers that live in that state
are being left.
So now what we're going to do is we're going to go to dashboards.
We'll go back to actions and we'll adjust the sections to have a play around with it.
Now instead of a select let's choose hover what that will do is the action will be applied as soon as
we hover over a dot on our map.
So let's see how that works click.
OK OK.
And now let's hover over some of the states as you can see our dashboard.
I'm not clicking anything and the dashboard is being adjusted right away as we're just hovering over.
And that is another way that you can present your dashboards it might be more convenient in certain
cases for you to be just required to just hover over these bubbles to get the second worksheet to adjust
itself.
Now let's look at the last option that we had there if we go to dashboard actions and we click Edit
Or we select menu what will happen is instead of adjusting the dashboard right away we are presenting
a menu where we can toggle the dashboard ourselves manually.
But personally I don't use that often.
So now let's do some more other things so forget dashboard actions EDIT Let's leave it at select and
let's explore this part of the dashboard.
So what happens when we clear this election.
Well we can either show old values which is happening now.
So once we click somewhere else on the map all values are returned.
What we can do is leave the filter.
So let's have a look at that.
So click OK.
And now if I select a state and a necklace somewhere else as you can see all the states are shown again.
But the filter is stays on.
So if I click somewhere else and I click back once again the filter does not is not removed which is
probably not a good thing in this case because it is misleading.
It looks like all the states are selected but in reality not all the customers are shown.
So let's change that.
Go to edit and you can also do exclude values.
So have a look at that in your own time.
It basically just will exclude all the values from your scatter plot.
So we'll just click and leave it back on shore.
All values click OK.
And as soon as we select something on selected we once again have all values.
So two more things that I wanted to show.
The first one is how you create can create that specific filter on your own.
So let's go to dashboard actions and we'll delete this filter.
Remove it.
OK.
So once again now you can see that once I click and nothing happens the scatter plot is not adjusted.
If I go to dashboard I want to add the filter on my own.
I go to actions I want to add action filter here.
The source of our filter is a map of Europe.
We can call our filter and select geography because we want to call select stead because we might want
to change our dashboard and show it at the city level one day it'll be a select type of filter and show
all values upon clearing the filter and those two are the target sheets.
OK.
And there you go.
Now it's all working and we created that filter all on our own.
So that's that's great.
That's how you create actions manually.
And the next thing I wanted to show you is that you can actually select multiple regions so I can select
two or three.
I'm just coding control on my keyboard and I can select many or I can use the multiple select feature
here in tableau.
So say a rectangular selection.
And here I've got the customers shown for all of those states or I can do a circular selection say I
want to select
so here I can select these customers or a grade one which I like is this free form selection.
So let's say I want to select all the people that are in France in the French states.
And there you go.
I've just selected everybody in France as easy as that and now I can analyze the customers that live
in France.
So that is how you create action filters in tableau dashboards and that is also how you can select many
points on your map and in the next sartorial we will talk about the action which is highlighting and
we will look at why highlighting is a bit different to filters and what the intricacies are there have
a play around with that and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.